A termagant wife may, therefore,
in some respects, be considered a tolerable blessing, and if so, Rip Van
Winkle was thrice blessed.
Rip’s sole domestic adherent was his dog Wolf, who was as much henpecked
as his master; for Dame Van Winkle regarded them as companions in
idleness, and even looked upon Wolf with an evil eye, as the cause of
his master’s going so often astray.
In a long ramble of the kind, on a fine autumnal day, Rip had
unconsciously scrambled to one of the highest parts of the Kaatskill
mountains.
For some time Rip lay musing on this scene; evening was gradually
advancing; the mountains began to throw their long blue shadows over
the valleys; he saw that it would be dark long before he could reach the
village; and he heaved a heavy sigh when he thought of encountering the
terrors of Dame Van Winkle.
As he was about to descend, he heard a voice from a distance hallooing:
“Rip Van Winkle!
Rip Van Winkle!"He looked around, but could see
nothing but a crow winging its solitary flight across the mountain.
He
thought his fancy must have deceived him, and turned again to descend,
when he heard the same cry ring through the still evening air,"Rip Van
Winkle!
Rip Van Winkle!”--at the same time Wolf bristled up his back,
and giving a low growl, skulked to his master’s side, looking fearfully
down into the glen.
By degrees, Rip’s awe and apprehension subsided.
On waking, he found himself on the green knoll whence he had first
seen the old man of the glen.
Here, then, poor Rip was
brought to a stand.
The morning was passing away,
and Rip felt famished for want of his breakfast.
Rip
called him by name, but the cur snarled, showed his teeth, and passed
on.
This was an unkind cut indeed.--“My very dog,"sighed poor Rip,"has
forgotten me!”

He entered the house, which, to tell the truth, Dame Van Winkle had
always kept in neat order.
There was a silence for a little while, when an old man replied, in a
thin, piping voice,"Nicholas Vedder?
Every answer
puzzled him too, by treating of such enormous lapses of time, and of
matters which he could not understand: war--Congress-Stony-Point;--he
had no courage to ask after any more friends, but cried out in despair,
“Does nobody here know Rip Van Winkle?”

“Oh, Rip Van Winkle!"exclaimed two or three.
that’s
Rip Van Winkle yonder, leaning against the tree.”

Rip looked, and beheld a precise counterpart of himself as he went up
the mountain; apparently as lazy, and certainly as ragged.
“Judith Cardenier.”

“And your father’s name?”

“Ah, poor man, Rip Van Winkle was his name, but it’s twenty years
since he went away from home with his gun, and never has been heard of
since,--his dog came home without him; but whether he shot himself,
or was carried away by the Indians, nobody can tell.
The honest
man could contain himself no longer.
“I am your father!"cried he-“Young Rip Van Winkle
once-old Rip Van Winkle now--Does nobody know poor Rip Van Winkle!”

All stood amazed, until an old woman, tottering out from among the
crowd, put her hand to her brow, and peering under it in his face for
a moment exclaimed,"sure enough!
it is Rip Van Winkle--it is himself.
Welcome home again, old neighbor.
Why, where have you been these twenty
long years?”

Rip’s story was soon told, for the whole twenty years had been to him
but as one night.
Rip’s daughter took him home to
live with her; she had a snug, well-furnished house, and a stout cheery
farmer for a husband, whom Rip recollected for one of the urchins that
used to climb upon his back.
“The story of Rip Van Winkle may seem incredible to many, but
nevertheless I give it my full belief, for I know the vicinity of our
old Dutch settlements to have been very subject to marvellous events and
appearances.

