From the moment Ichabod laid his eyes upon these regions of delight, the
peace of his mind was at an end, and his only study was how to gain the
affections of the peerless daughter of Van Tassel.
Ichabod, therefore, made his advances
in a quiet and gently insinuating manner.
In the mean time, Ichabod would carry on his suit with the
daughter by the side of the spring under the great elm, or sauntering
along in the twilight, that hour so favorable to the lover’s eloquence.
Ichabod was a suitable figure for such a steed.
It was toward evening that Ichabod arrived at the castle of the Heer
Van Tassel, which he found thronged with the pride and flower of the
adjacent country.
Brom Bones, however, was the hero of the scene, having come to the
gathering on his favorite steed Daredevil, a creature, like himself,
full of mettle and mischief, and which no one but himself could manage.
Fain would I pause to dwell upon the world of charms that burst upon
the enraptured gaze of my hero, as he entered the state parlor of Van
Tassel’s mansion.
Happily, Ichabod Crane was not in so great a hurry as his historian, but
did ample justice to every dainty.
Ichabod prided himself upon his dancing as much as upon his vocal
powers.
When the dance was at an end, Ichabod was attracted to a knot of the
sager folks, who, with Old Van Tassel, sat smoking at one end of the
piazza, gossiping over former times, and drawing out long stories about
the war.
The chief part of the
stories, however, turned upon the favorite spectre of Sleepy Hollow, the
Headless Horseman, who had been heard several times of late, patrolling
the country; and, it was said, tethered his horse nightly among the
graves in the churchyard.
To look upon its grass-grown yard, where
the sunbeams seem to sleep so quietly, one would think that there at
least the dead might rest in peace.
On one side of the church extends a
wide woody dell, along which raves a large brook among broken rocks and
trunks of fallen trees.
The old farmers gathered together
their families in their wagons, and were heard for some time rattling
along the hollow roads, and over the distant hills.
Let it suffice to say, Ichabod stole forth
with the air of one who had been sacking a henroost, rather than a fair
lady’s heart.
A few rough logs, laid side by side, served for a bridge
over this stream.
Just at this moment a plashy tramp by the side of the bridge caught the
sensitive ear of Ichabod.
The hair of the affrighted pedagogue rose upon his head with terror.
He made no offer of molestation or sociability,
but kept aloof on one side of the road, jogging along on the blind side
of old Gunpowder, who had now got over his fright and waywardness.
Ichabod’s flimsy garments fluttered in the air, as
he stretched his long lank body away over his horse’s head, in the
eagerness of his flight.
Ichabod endeavored to
dodge the horrible missile, but too late.
Ichabod did not make his appearance at breakfast; dinner-hour
came, but no Ichabod.
Hans
Van Ripper now began to feel some uneasiness about the fate of poor
Ichabod, and his saddle.
The old country wives, however, who are the best judges of these
matters, maintain to this day that Ichabod was spirited away by
supernatural means; and it is a favorite story often told about the
neighborhood round the winter evening fire.
He was one of your wary men,
who never laugh but upon good grounds--when they have reason and law on
their side.

